---
layout: post
title: "Colophon"
date: 2012-10-23 11:05
comments: true
categories: web cloud blogging
---
I love Amazon Web Services. Their organization has been innovating at a
breakneck pace. Since about [a year and a half ago][1], they have
supported hosting a static website on S3.

I finally switched over to that. [This post][2] is invaluable for
getting all the configuration right to make the website work.

The other technology I'm using this time around is a blogging engine
called [Octopress][octopress] which is tailor-made for a web nerd like
me. It's meant for editing GitHub pages, but since it generates a static
website, it's also ideal for publishing to S3.

A typical blogging engine like [Wordpress][wordpress] store posts, tags,
etc. in a relational database and then uses some kind of server
technology like PHP to dynamically generate a page for every web
request. Not only does this make hosting and setup more complicated,
this places a burden on your web server to do some actual computation
whenever it needs to serve a page. Under normal circumstances, it's not
much work, and your blog can hum along happily on a very inexpensive
shared hosting account. The problem comes when circumstances become
abnormal, such as when something on your blog gets linked from Reddit,
Slashdot (yes, it [still exists][slashdot]), or Daring Fireball.

What ought to be a happy day for the life of your blog becomes an
emergency when your little server can no longer keep up. I should point
out that in a shared hosting environment, you can expect downtime if
_any_ of the customers on your shared host suddenly go viral.

You can solve this problem with Wordpress by adding a plugin called [WP
Super Cache][wp-super-cache]. How does it work? It bypasses the dynamic
generation of pages and serves static files! With Octopress, I skip the
middleman and simply generate static pages from the get-go. This isn't
actually a new technique for blogging; This is how Movable Type has
always worked, among others. But with Octopress, I get the alpha nerd
pleasure of creating a new post like this:

    rake new_post["Say What!"]

[1]:http://www.allthingsdistributed.com/2011/02/website_amazon_s3.html
[2]:http://stackoverflow.com/questions/8312162/static-hosting-on-amazon-s3-dns-configuration
[octopress]:http://octopress.org/
[wordpress]:http://wordpress.org/
[slashdot]:http://slashdot.org/
[wp-super-cache]:http://wordpress.org/extend/plugins/wp-super-cache/
