---
layout: post
title: "Cleaning Out the Garage"
date: 2013-06-25 11:00
comments: true
categories:
---
Why does it take so long to get software right? Why does the QA cycle
drag on and on even though we left next to no time for it on the
schedule (whoops)?

I'll shed some light on this subject by way of an analogy. Let's say
your garage has become the place in your home where things go to die.
Unfortunately, this is not just a made-up story in my life. When we want
something out of sight, out to the garage it goes. Things pile up in
sediment layers. At least we have the presence of mind to leave a
car-shaped hole on one side.

One day, we decide to clean it. What if we want it really clean? Like,
Martha Stuart clean? We have to do this in stages. First things first:
there's big junk in here that has got to go. We can't address anything
else until we get the big stuff out. We find it a home, or put it up for
sale, or give it away, or throw it away. Whew, that was a lot of work!

Now, we can see that there's trash laying around that we couldn't see
before because of all the junk. Ok, we know what to do with the trash.
More work.

Now that the trash is gone, we can see the dirt, leaves and stray
packing peanuts. We can take care of this with the shop vac. Starting to
look nice!

Now we're able to see dirt and grime on the floor that the vacuum
couldn't pick up. Let's try a mop.

Our garage is looking pretty good, but we wanted it Martha Stuart clean,
remember? To our dismay, we find that there is an ugly oil stain on one
side that we were completely unable to see while we were taking care of
the big stuff. We're going to need a special trip to the store for some
kind of industrial degreasing agent and maybe a mask so that it doesn't
kill us. While we're at it, let's get a can of concrete sealer so that
we can protect against this kind of thing happening again.

That oil stain finally came out, but it took multiple applications,
which was definitely not in the directions. According to the information
on the can of sealer, it's so toxic that we're going to have to evacuate
the house for a couple of days. We weren't counting on that, but you
gotta do what you gotta do.

Now, our garage is clean, cleaner than it's ever been. We could not have
predicted some of the work we had to do. Indeed, we couldn't even see
the later work before the earlier work was done.

Here are the lessons for software development:

1. What is more important: shipping on date X or taking care of every
   detail? The right answer will depend on your situation, but be
conscious about the choice. The garage project was a success or a
failure depending on which of these was your priority.
1. Make your deliverables smaller. If quality takes time, work on small
   pieces that you can get right _and_ deliver quickly. I can deliver a
Martha Stuart clean wine glass much more easily than I can deliver the
garage.
